## Description

**Dicare Tools** are a set of tools to contribute to and to gather statistics about Wikimedia projects.

`dicare-tools` is a web project.

## Installation

This documentation covers the installation of Dicare Tools under a Linux system, at the URL `https://tools.dicare.org/`.

### Requirements

* a web server (seems OK with Apache and nginx)
* PHP 7+, with packages `php-mysql` and `php-curl`
* MySQL 5.7+ (compatibility with MariaDB has not been tested)
* Java 8+ (only for *Related Properties* and *Related Projects*)

### Web server

Copy all files from the project `dicare-tools` into `/var/www/tools.dicare.org`.

Configure a new site on your web server, with `/var/www/tools.dicare.org/www` as the root directory.

An example of nginx site configuration is available in `doc/nginx.example.conf`.

### MySQL

Dicare Tools require a MySQL database.

You can install the MySQL server using the [official repositories](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/repo/).

Create a new database on your MySQL server:

    CREATE DATABASE `dicare` DEFAULT CHARACTER SET 'utf8mb4';

Create a user (change the password):

    CREATE USER 'dicare'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'xxxxxxx';

Grant to the user all rights on the database:

    GRANT ALL ON `dicare`.* TO 'dicare'@'localhost';

Grant to the user the right to access files:

    GRANT FILE on *.* to 'dicare'@'localhost';

Initialize the schema with the script `doc/schema.sql`.

### Dependency

*Related Properties* and *Related Projects* require the project [`dicare-tools-import`](https://github.com/envlh/dicare-tools-import).

Copy the file `wdtk-import.jar` (generated by the project `dicare-tools-import`) into the `scripts` directory.

By default, Wikidata JSON dumps are stored in `/home/wikidata/dumpfiles` (see the project `dicare-tools-import` to change that). This directory must be readable and writable by the user who starts the imports.

## Configuration

Create the file `conf/conf.inc.php`, using the example `conf/conf.example.php`.

Most important variables are:

* `DB_HOST`: host of the MySQL server
* `DB_USER`: MySQL user
* `DB_PASSWORD`: password of the MySQL user
* `DB_NAME`: name of the MySQL schema
* `SITE_DIR`: URL of Dicare Tools
* `SITE_STATIC_DIR`: URL of the directory with static web resources of Dicare Tools

## Imports

### Names statistics

To force an update, go into the `scripts` directory and use the following command:

    bash name.cron.sh

### Related Properties and Related Projects

To start an import, go into the `scripts` directory and use the following command:

    bash import.sh

By default, the import use the last JSON dump, downloading it if it is not already present on the server.

You can import another dump by specifying the date of the dump as a parameter:

    bash import.sh 20180604

In that case, the JSON dump must be already present on the server.

## Copyright

This project is under AGPLv3 license. See LICENSE, NOTICE, and CONTRIBUTORS files for complete credits.

## See also

* [`dicare-tools-import`](https://github.com/envlh/dicare-tools-import)
